---
title: "Notice of AGM 2013"
date: 2013-06-01 18:20:02
slug: notice-of-agm-2013
author: "sysadmin_1a1xu9u1"
categories: ["Announcements", "Monthly Newsletter"]
tags: ["AGM"]
---

### DHARMA SARA SATSANG SOCIETY NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

### Saturday June 15, 2013 12:00 am – 2:00 pm at the Salt Spring Centre of Yoga

**1. Election of the Board**
There will be an election to fill the positions of President, Treasurer, and four other Board members. Nominations for these positions should be submitted to Paramita at the Centre (paramita@saltspringcentre.com) or Divakar in Vancouver (marksraetzen@shaw.ca), by Saturday, June 8, 2013. See item 3 below for eligibility to vote and be nominated.
If you plan to nominate someone who will not be at the meeting, please make sure they are prepared to accept the nomination.
**2. Reports**
Centre Director, Programs (Yoga Teacher Training, Annual Community Yoga Retreat, Karma Yoga Service & Study, Yoga Getaways and Personal Retreats), Chikitsa Shala Wellness Centre, Farm, Centre School, Financial, Strategic Planning and Vancouver Satsang reports will be presented, including discussion pertaining thereto.
Reports at the AGM should be concise. More extensive written reports should be emailed to Chandra Pamela Rose (pam@paralynx.com ) by June 1, 2013 for distribution to members of the Board prior to the meeting. People presenting reports are encouraged to include highlights in their area over the past year and an outline of plans and visions for their area over the coming year.
**3. Voting Members**
The Society’s By-Laws provide that persons:
a) shall not be entitled to vote unless they have been a member of the Society for at least 90 days, and
b) shall not be entitled to run for any office unless they have been a member of the Society for at least twelve months, and that
c) proxies, in such form prescribed by the Board from time to time, shall be allowed in voting at meetings of the Society.
**4. Membership Renewal**
A reminder to those who have not yet renewed their 2013 membership: The fee for the 2013 year is $25.00 per person. Please note that 2012 memberships expired on December 31, 2012.
If you wish to renew by credit card please phone the office at 250-537-2326. Otherwise a cheque can be mailed to 355 Blackburn Road, Salt Spring Island, BC, V8K 2B8. Cash, cheques and credit cards will also be accepted at the annual general meeting.
